With the rapid advancements in technology, the utilization of robots is getting closer to ordinary people, just like the 3d printers. Robotic arms offer a wide range of applications such as measuring, 3D scanning, cutting, milling, drawing, spraying, 3D printing, and more.  

Robotic arms are precision machines that are programmed to perform specific tasks quickly, efficiently, and with high accuracy. Primarily driven by motors, they are commonly employed for carrying out heavy and highly repetitive procedures over extended periods. These arms are particularly valuable in industrial sectors such as production, manufacturin, etc. A typical industrial robot arm consists of multiple joints, articulations, and manipulators, which mimicing the movement of a human arm from a mechanical point of view. A programmed robotic arm can function independently as a complete machine or as a component of a larger and more complex equipment setup.  

The end effector, located at the end of the robotic arm, is designed to interact with the surrounding environment and it enables to perform various functions. The primary responsibility of the robotic arm is to transport the end effector from one location to another based on user commands sent via a control computer. The design of the end effector depends on the intended applications of the robotic arm. It is also referred to as a robotic hand and can be tailored to perform tasks such as spinning, gripping, welding, and other operations. Different types of end effectors can be attached to a robotic arm, with the human hand-like end effector being one of the most commonly used. This particular design finds extensive usage in the manipulation, gripping, and transportation of various objects.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ycJ9lMgZVuA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>